Basic Pizza Dough (or Garlic Bread)

Based on Mark Bittman's NYT Recipe located at http://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/12399-mark-bittmans-basic-pizza-dough

Full recipe (4 Cups of Flour) makes 2 large pizzas - use amounts in parentheses to make a half-batch with 2 cups of flour.

Ingredients 

    4   (2)    cups all-purpose flour; can partly substitute with bread flour for 'chewy' pizza
    2.5 (1.25) teaspoons instant yeast
    2.5 (1.25) teaspoons salt, plus more for sprinkling
    2.5 (1.25) tablespoons olive oil, plus more as necessary
    1.3 (0.65) or more cups of warm water

Making Dough:

1) Mix components and knead for about ten minutes; should be slightly sticky but firm - i.e. it should feel like dough: your fingers should be clean, but the dough should feel soft and pliable. If not wet enough, add water a tablespoon at a time to remedy. Sometimes, its easier to add too much water and then try to work backwards by adding flour.

2) Ball dough, and cover with plastic wrap and let rise for 1-2 hours until the dough doubles in size.

3) Can now take dough (2 cups of flour at a time) and put in ziplock in fridge (keeps for a week) or freeze.

Baking:

4) Preheat oven to 450 deg F.

5) Take out stored dough (if just continuing right from first rise, skip this step, duh). If from refrigerator, let dough warm up on parchment paper for 20 minutes or so. If from frozen, let dough defrost (preferably just put in refrigerator for a hours before making pizza), then consider mixing teaspoon of yeast and warm water into dough to help with second rise.

6) Roll dough into pizza shape on parchment paper covered in olive oil. If dough isn't stretchy enough, wait 10-15 minutes to warm up. In general, stretch-wait-stretch-wait is good, gives dough time to have a second rise (but second rise is optional; how puffy do you want your pizza?). 

7) Make pizza by adding sauce, cheese, toppings. Or make garlic bread by drizzling in extra virgin olive oil and rubbing in garlic power, salt and oregono.

8) Bake for 10 min at 450 deg F.


For Deep Dish: (Need to make four cups of flour worth.)

Need marinara sauce (or a can of crushed tomatoes), plenty of mozzarella (like a whole bag of shredded cheese, maybe more), chopped green peppers, chopped onions and ground spicy italian sausage. Or whatever you want to fill it with!

4) Preheat oven to 450 deg. F.

5) Take out stored dough, let warm up if taken from refrigerator. Divide dough unevenly into 6/10ths and 4/10ths pieces, stretch and flatten.

6) Grease a pie dish with olive oil. Place larger dough into dish, further flatten and shape to pie dish so that the edges of the dough hang over the sides.

8) Pan fry onions, sausage and peppers until nicely browned. Dump whole mess into dough in pie dish (beware: one package of ground sausage might be more sausage than single pizza can take). Dump all the mozzarella cheese in. Mix up so its a nice combination.

9) Place the second dough on top and close it up so its got a nice edge, just like any pie. I like the pinch and twist technique.

10) Put in the oven and bake for 15-20 minutes, checking regularly. When slightly browned, remove from oven.

11) add sauce to cover and fill the crown of the pie. For style, add slices of tomatoes. Return to oven for another 5-10 minutes, let cool and serve.
