Veggie Low-Fat Lasagna

Lasagna Noodles (1 Box)
1.5 bottles of marinara sauce
1 Chopped Onion
Sliced Zucchini, Yellow Squash
Diced Eggplant
Chopped Garlic
Egg Whites (1 Cup-ish)
Fat-Free Ricotta Cheese (15 oz, small container)
Low-Fat Shredded Mozzarella Cheese
Optional: Shredded Parmasan Cheese

1) Greese pan, spread a quarter of a bottle of marinara on bottom
	NOTE: save remaining quarter for the end!
2) Sautee the eggplant, onion and garlic 
3) Add the zucchinni and squash halfway through
4) Boil noodles
5) When veggies are cooked, add marinara, season
6) When noodles are done, lay out on flat objects
7) Mix Ricotta, egg whites, mozzarella, parmasan (if have any)
   -Make sure to add enough egg white so somewhat soupy
7b) BEGIN PREHEATING OVEN NOW!
8) Put down noodles, cover in cheese mix, then put on some sauce
	NOTE: use up cheese sauce and veggies+sauce mix before last noodle layer!
9) repeat layering until the last layer, which is just sauce (that left-over quarter!)
10) Bake 20 min at 375 with aluminum foil cover
	NOTE: Consider putting a larger pan underneath to catch any unwanted drippings!
11) Add mozzarella cheese on top
12) Recover with foil and bake 10 min more

Enjoy! The only fat is in the mozzarella/parmasan.

Can also try it with more ricotta, but maybe that's too much?


Alternative with Spinach and Mushroom (no eggplant, onion or zucchinni)
	Need enough mushroom to fill frying pan
	Need enough spinach to fill BIG pot! (THAT'S ONE GIANT THING OF SPINACH)
Need Spinach and portobello mushrooms

-instead of (2) and (3)...
-Chop up about 3 cloves of garlic. Put half in a big pot.
-Sort good leaves of spinach, removing stems. Should be enough to fill big pot.
-Rinse and put in big pot. Put on low-low heat with top on to simmer spinach.
-Take several big Portobello mushrooms, clean well, but leave gills on.
-Take oil and butter and other half of garlic and put in pan. Heat until butter melts.
-Put mushrooms in gill-side down. Salt. Saute mushrooms until muchroom juices run.
-Mix mushrooms and spinach into 1 jar of marinara sauce. Season.
-Go on to (4)
