Red Lentil Chili from the Washington Post
https://www.washingtonpost.com/recipes/red-lentil-chili/16104/?utm_term=.4667061e7533

Tested size: 8 servings; makes 9 cups


Ingredients

    2 tablespoons grapeseed oil
    1 medium white onion, diced (1 cup)
    1 medium red bell pepper, stemmed, seeded and diced (1 cup)
    1/2 teaspoon kosher salt, or more as needed
    1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper, or more as needed
    1 jalapeño pepper (not seeded), minced, plus fresh slices for serving
    4 cloves garlic, minced and mashed with the flat side of a knife
    3 tablespoons chili powder
    2 tablespoons ground cumin
    1 teaspoon Spanish smoked paprika (sweet pimenton)
    Two 15-ounce cans no-salt-added diced tomatoes and their juices
    3 tablespoons tomato paste
    1 3/4 cups water, or more as needed
    3/4 cup dried red lentils, rinsed and drained
    One 15-ounce can no-salt added kidney beans, drained
    One 15-ounce can no-salt-added black beans, drained
    Chopped cilantro, for serving
    Diced avocado, for serving

Directions

Heat the oil in a large pot over medium heat. Once the oil shimmers, stir in the onion and red bell pepper. Season with 1/4 teaspoon each of the salt and pepper; cook for 3 or 4 minutes, stirring often, until they have just softened.

Stir in the jalapeño and garlic, then add 2 tablespoons of the chili powder, half the cumin, the smoked paprika, the tomatoes and their juices, tomato paste and water, stirring to incorporate. Increase the heat to medium-high; once the liquid begins to boil, stir in the lentils.

Reduce the heat to medium-low, so the mixture is barely bubbling; cook for 15 minutes or until the lentils are mostly tender (they will look plumped). Add more water, as needed.

Add the kidney beans, black beans, the remaining 1/4 teaspoon each of the salt and pepper, the remaining tablespoon each of cumin and chili powder, stirring to incorporate. Once the beans have heated through, reduce the heat to low, cover and cook for 20 minutes, stirring a few times. Taste and add salt and/or pepper, as needed.

Serve warm, topped with jalapeño slices, the cilantro and avocado.

VARIATION: To make this in a slow cooker, add all the ingredients at once and cook on HIGH for 3 hours.








